# Unique features of extremely halophilic microbiota inhabiting solar saltwork fields of Vietnam

  The artificial solar saltwork fields of Hon Khoi are important industrial and biodiversity re-sources in southern Vietnam. Most hypersaline environments in this area are characterized by saturated salinity, nearly neutral pH, intense ultraviolet radiation, elevated temperatures and fast desiccation processes. However, the extreme halophilic prokaryotic communities associated with these stressful environments remain uninvestigated. To fill this gap, a metabarocoding ap-proach was conducted to characterize these communities by comparing them with solar salterns in northern Vietnam as well as with Italian salterns. Sequencing analyses revealed that the multi-ple reuses of crystallization ponds apparently create significant perturbations and structural in-stability in prokaryotic consortia. However, some interesting features were noticed when we examined the diversity of ultra-small prokaryotes belonging to Patescibacteria and DPANN Ar-chaea. Surprisingly, we found at least five deeply branched clades, two from Patescibacteria and three from DPANN Archaea, which seem to be quite specific to Hon Khoi saltwork fields ecosys-tem and can be considered as a part of biogeographical connotation. Further studies are needed to characterize these uncultivated taxa, to isolate and cultivate them, which will allow us to eluci-date their ecological role in these hypersaline habitats and to explore their biotechnological and biomedical potential. 
